# Chord Simulator in Repast Simphony
Repast  Simphony  is  an  agent-based  modeling  framework
that  allows  users  to  develop  their  own  models.  Repast  Simphony  applications  can  be  developed  in  Java.  It  provides  a
graphical user interface (GUI) to display the state of the model
simulation
## Installation Guide
You must have installed the Java Runtime Environment (JRE) to install the model simulator. If the JRE is not on your computer, see  <a href="https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/technotes/guides/install/install_overview.html"> this </a> link for a full explanation on how to install it. Ensure to install Java 11 or any later version, otherwise, the model will not be executed properly.

Once you have installed the JRE, download the model <a href="https://drive.google.com/file/d/11ey-iXUzArzKExm3o6zm00--67V7lZSl/view?usp=sharing"> here </a>. Go to the folder where the `chord_model.jar` has been downloaded and double-click on it. An installation wizard will be displayed on the screen. Select the language of the installation in the "Language Selection" dialog box and select "OK" to go to the "Installation of chord" screen. Select "Next" to read the information about the model. Then, select "Next" again to open the license agreement. Review the license agreement before proceeding. If you agree to the license terms, select the "I accept the terms of this license agreement." button, then select "Next" to choose the installation folder. By default, the software will be installed in `C:\Program Files\chord`. You can choose a different location by clicking on the "Browse…" button, navigating to the desired folder and selecting it. Ensure the selected folder is empty, otherwise its content will be overwritten. Select "Next" to decide which packs to install. Leave the default setting and select "Next" to start the software installation.

Once the installation is finished, select "Next" to open the "Setup Shortcuts" screen. If you want to create a shortcut in the Start-Menu leave the default setting, otherwise remove the flag from the “Create shortcuts in the Start-Menu” checkbox. Select "Next" to go to the final installation screen. Unless you need to install the software in other computers, you do not need to select "Generate an automatic installation script". Finally, select "Done" to terminate the installation procedure.

If you created a shortcut in the previous steps, you can run the model by searching for the shortcut on the Start-Menu and single-clicking on it. Otherwise, go to the folder where you installed the model and double-click `start_model.bat`. The Repast Simphony GUI will be displayed. You are now ready to run the model. 
